# CS-465

# Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
In our MEAN full stack project, the frontend development revolves around using JavaScript to add interactivity, dynamic behavior, and manipulate the Document Object Model (DOM) of web pages. This is done by using the Express framework to create server-side logic, handle routes, and interact with databases through methods such as endpoints of an API. I was also able to use HTML to create the structure of the web pages in the application. Lastly, I used Angular to create a Single-Page Application (SPA) which is a frontend architectural pattern where the entire application runs within a single web page. Using a SPA causes longer initial load times but allows for faster navigation, smoother user experience, and reduced server load.
# Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
The backend used a NoSQL MongoDB database because it easily stores JSON data sent to it even though it internally stores that data as BSON. This database is also designed to store data in a schema-less manner even though we created our own schemas using Mongoose. Lastly, the database can scale horizontally allowing for growth in the database as the application grows.
# How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) and JavaScript are related but are used very differently from one another. JSON is a lightweight data interchange format that is used to transmit data between a server and a client. It is easy for humans to read and write, machines to parse and generate, represent structured data, and commonly used to transfer data in web APIs. JavaScript, on the other hand, is a programming language that is used to create interactive and dynamic behavior on web pages. JavaScript is a versatile language that can be used both on the front end and the back end. It is commonly used to manipulate the DOM, respond to user interactions, and perform actions on the client side. 
# Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
One way that I refactored code was to move common functions out on their own so that the functions could be called on from different places of the application versus creating the same code repeatedly throughout the application. This adhered to the DRY principle of don't repeat yourself. The biggest refactor however was creating the single page application (SPA) where the page never changed and only aspects within the page changed. This was a big change from the previous version where every aspect needed to render a completely new page.
# Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full-stack application.
The methods used in the full-stack development were GET to  retrieve data from the server, POST to send data to the server for creating a new resource, PUT to update an existing resource on the server, and DELETE to remove a resource from the server. An endpoint refers to a specific URL that a client can send an HTTP request to. An example of this is "/trips" to retrieve a list of trips or "/trips/{TripId}" to get details about a specific trip. We also used security in the form of authentication to ensure that users are who they claimed to be, and authorization to determine what actions or resources they were allowed to access once logged in. This made testing our application more complex because we needed a valid JSON WEB TOKEN to ensure that we were logged in before we could test the endpoints and verify that they were working correctly when a user was logged in versus when they weren't.
# How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
This course helped me broaden my knowledge in web development, especially considering that we covered both the back-end and front-end of the application where full-stack developers are in high demand. Understanding how to put all the frameworks of a MEAN stack together and be able to develop a full stack application front to back removes obstacles where two different teams would be needed to complete an application such as front-end specialists on one team and back-end specialists on another team. By learning both ends I am better positioned to take on any opening for any web application project.
